README.md, before:

K&L iSite2 XML Data Migrator
============================

## Background

When the development team update forms in iSite2 this can have an impact on the
XML associated with that form.

Any data created using that form, prior to the change, will not contain the
recent changes. This can lead to a number of issues such as
- Forms not displaying all the data in the XML correctly
- Added logic in the PAL to deal with different data structures


## Introduction

This script can be used to target a specific file type within iSite2, on any of
the environments, and update the XML to be in the latest format.

The script also maintains the 'published' and 'in progress' states of the
document so that the updated XML should transparent both on the front end and to
the editorial teams managing the data.

### Notice

The script will only work *off the reith network*.


## Location

On your sandbox, change to the application directory

    $ cd /mnt/hgfs/workspace/kandl-migration-script


## Dependencies

You'll need to run

    $ bundle install


## Running the Script

First change to the application directory on your sandbox:

    $ cd /mnt/hgfs/workspace/kandl-migration-script

There are actually two scripts associated with this task, but both scripts have
the following command line options:

    -e, --environment ENVIRONMENT    The environment to update
    -p, --project PROJECT            The iSite2 project to query
    -f, --filetype FILETYPE          The iSite2 file type to update
    -x, --xslpath PATH TO XSL        Path of the XSL file(s) to use for transforms
    -t, --threads NUMBER             The number of threads to use (default 20)
    -i, --inputpath INPUTPATH        Path containing XML documents to transform
    -o, --output OUTPUTPATH          Output path for transformed XML documents
    -h, --help                       Display this screen


#### Download

To download Study Guide list files from the test environment:

    $ ruby -I. ./app/fetch.rb -e test -p education -f sg-study-guide-list

This will:
- download all the Study Guide lists from the test environment, in both the 'published' and 'in progress' states,
- place the new content in a directory for upload

Required arguments: environment, project, filetype

#### Download and apply transform(s)

To download Study Guide list files from the test environment:

    $ ruby -I. ./app/fetch-and-transform.rb -e test -p education -f sg-study-guide-list -x path/to/study-guide-list.xsl

This will:
- download all the Study Guide lists from the test environment, in both
the 'published' and 'in progress' states,
- update the data using the provided XSLT(s). If the path is a directory, all XSL transforms in directory will be applied in alphanumerically sorted order.
- place the new content in a directory for upload

Required arguments: environment, project, filetype, xslpath

### Apply transform(s)

#### Configuration

Transform directories should live in a filetype subdirectory of the project's template migrations directory. `{project}/isite2/templates/migrations/{filetype}/`

Each transform directory must start with a unique number and a dash, e.g. `003-convert-foo-to-bar` and contain the following files:

```
transform.yml
transform.xsl
schema.xsd
```

The transform script uses a yml file to setup the transform source and target pattern. The benefit of this is that the command is simpler to run and easily reproducible in the future.

The file should be of the following format:

```
source:
target:
```
- `source` is the parent directory where the documents have previously been downloaded to. Use a regular-expression match on sub-directories and filenames.
- `target` is the parent directory of where you want the transformed documents output to. Use a regular-expression value on sub-directories and filenames so it corresponds to the source directory.



#### The Command

To run the transform

    $ ruby ./transform.rb -p :project -f filetype -e :environment -t :transformNumber

where:
 - `:project` is `education` or `guides` and relates to the kandl repository
 - `:filetype` is the template filetype to transform
 - `:environment` is `test`, `stage` or `live` and relates to the environment that the files were obtained from
 - `:transformNumber` is an integer value corresponding to the transform directory prefix


### Uploading and Publishing

To upload the amended Study Guide list files to the test environment:

    $ ruby ./upload.rb -e test -p education -f sg-study-guide-list

Required arguments: environment, project, filetype

## Tests

To run the tests:

    $ rspec

## Custom Scripts

There is a custom script in place to support the migration of content for the Blocks project, and all it's child projects.

You should call it like this:
```
$ sh ./scripts/blocks.sh -f :filetype -e :environment -t :transformNumber
```
where:
 - `:filetype` is the isite filetype to transform
 - `:environment` is `test` or `live` and relates to the environment that is being targeted
 - `:transformNumber` is:
   - an integer value corresponding to the transform directory prefix
   - an integer spread corresponding to the series of transforms you wish to apply

Example of calling a single transform:
```
$ sh ./scripts/blocks.sh -f article -e test -t 16
```

Example of calling a series of transforms:
```
$ sh ./scripts/blocks.sh -f article -e test -t 12..16
```

Commit message:

chore: Update to unpublish and delete files (#50)
Updates remove.rb so that it unpublishes the files one at a time, otherwise it will fail to unpublish all the files in that batch.

## JIRA
Part of: https://jira.dev.bbc.co.uk/browse/BITESIZE-6866

README.md, after:

K&L iSite2 XML Data Migrator
============================

## Background

When the development team update forms in iSite2 this can have an impact on the
XML associated with that form.

Any data created using that form, prior to the change, will not contain the
recent changes. This can lead to a number of issues such as
- Forms not displaying all the data in the XML correctly
- Added logic in the PAL to deal with different data structures


## Introduction

This script can be used to target a specific file type within iSite2, on any of
the environments, and update the XML to be in the latest format.

The script also maintains the 'published' and 'in progress' states of the
document so that the updated XML should transparent both on the front end and to
the editorial teams managing the data.

### Notice

The script will only work *off the reith network*.


## Location

On your sandbox, change to the application directory

    $ cd /mnt/hgfs/workspace/kandl-migration-script


## Dependencies

You'll need to run

    $ bundle install


## Running the Script

First change to the application directory on your sandbox:

    $ cd /mnt/hgfs/workspace/kandl-migration-script

There are actually two scripts associated with this task, but both scripts have
the following command line options:

    -e, --environment ENVIRONMENT    The environment to update
    -p, --project PROJECT            The iSite2 project to query
    -f, --filetype FILETYPE          The iSite2 file type to update
    -x, --xslpath PATH TO XSL        Path of the XSL file(s) to use for transforms
    -t, --threads NUMBER             The number of threads to use (default 20)
    -i, --inputpath INPUTPATH        Path containing XML documents to transform
    -o, --output OUTPUTPATH          Output path for transformed XML documents
    -h, --help                       Display this screen


#### Download

To download Study Guide list files from the test environment:

    $ ruby -I. ./app/fetch.rb -e test -p education -f sg-study-guide-list

This will:
- download all the Study Guide lists from the test environment, in both the 'published' and 'in progress' states,
- place the new content in a directory for upload

Required arguments: environment, project, filetype

#### Download and apply transform(s)

To download Study Guide list files from the test environment:

    $ ruby -I. ./app/fetch-and-transform.rb -e test -p education -f sg-study-guide-list -x path/to/study-guide-list.xsl

This will:
- download all the Study Guide lists from the test environment, in both
the 'published' and 'in progress' states,
- update the data using the provided XSLT(s). If the path is a directory, all XSL transforms in directory will be applied in alphanumerically sorted order.
- place the new content in a directory for upload

Required arguments: environment, project, filetype, xslpath

### Apply transform(s)

#### Configuration

Transform directories should live in a filetype subdirectory of the project's template migrations directory. `{project}/isite2/templates/migrations/{filetype}/`

Each transform directory must start with a unique number and a dash, e.g. `003-convert-foo-to-bar` and contain the following files:

```
transform.yml
transform.xsl
schema.xsd
```

The transform script uses a yml file to setup the transform source and target pattern. The benefit of this is that the command is simpler to run and easily reproducible in the future.

The file should be of the following format:

```
source:
target:
```
- `source` is the parent directory where the documents have previously been downloaded to. Use a regular-expression match on sub-directories and filenames.
- `target` is the parent directory of where you want the transformed documents output to. Use a regular-expression value on sub-directories and filenames so it corresponds to the source directory.



#### The Command

To run the transform

    $ ruby ./transform.rb -p :project -f filetype -e :environment -t :transformNumber

where:
 - `:project` is `education` or `guides` and relates to the kandl repository
 - `:filetype` is the template filetype to transform
 - `:environment` is `test`, `stage` or `live` and relates to the environment that the files were obtained from
 - `:transformNumber` is an integer value corresponding to the transform directory prefix


### Uploading and Publishing

To upload the amended Study Guide list files to the test environment:

    $ ruby ./upload.rb -e test -p education -f sg-study-guide-list

Required arguments: environment, project, filetype


### Unpublishing and Deleteing

To unpublish and delete a filetype from a specified environment:

    $ ruby ./app/remove.rb -e test -p education -f sg-study-guide-list

Required arguments: environment, project, filetype


## Tests

To run the tests:

    $ rspec

## Custom Scripts

There is a custom script in place to support the migration of content for the Blocks project, and all it's child projects.

You should call it like this:
```
$ sh ./scripts/blocks.sh -f :filetype -e :environment -t :transformNumber
```
where:
 - `:filetype` is the isite filetype to transform
 - `:environment` is `test` or `live` and relates to the environment that is being targeted
 - `:transformNumber` is:
   - an integer value corresponding to the transform directory prefix
   - an integer spread corresponding to the series of transforms you wish to apply

Example of calling a single transform:
```
$ sh ./scripts/blocks.sh -f article -e test -t 16
```

Example of calling a series of transforms:
```
$ sh ./scripts/blocks.sh -f article -e test -t 12..16
```
